initial pipeline pseudo PR (#17)
nf-core/proteinfamilies: docs/output.md

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps:

Initial clustering:

- [MMseqs2](#mmseqs2) initial clustering of input amino acid sequences and filtering with membership threshold

Multiple sequence alignment:

- [FAMSA](#famsa) aligner option. Best speed and sensitivity option to build seed multiple sequence alignment for the families
- [mafft](#mafft) aligner option. Fast but not as sensitive as FAMSA to build seed multiple sequence alignment for the families

> - [ClipKIT](#clipkit) to optionally clip gapped portions of the multiple sequence alignment (MSA)

Reviewer: These guidance (best speed, fast but not sensitive) sentences should really go in usage-  you want to to know this before you run the pipeline.

- [FAMSA](#famsa-for-updating-families) aligner option. Re-align full MSA with final set of sequences
- [mafft](#mafft-for-updating-families) aligner option. Re-align full MSA with final set of sequences
- [ClipKIT](#clipkit-for-updating-families) to optionally clip gapped portions of the multiple sequence alignment (MSA)

Reporting:

- [Extract family representatives](#extract-family-representatives) to produce the final metadata file along with a fasta of all family representative sequences (can be used downstream for structural prediction).
- [MultiQC](#multiqc) - Aggregate report describing results and QC from the whole pipeline
- [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

### MMseqs2

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `mmseqs/`
  - `initial_clustering/`
    - `mmseqs_createtsv/`
      - `<samplename>.tsv`: tab-separated table containing 2 columns; the first one with the cluster representative sequences, and the second with the cluster members
    - `mmseqs_createdb/`
      - `<samplename>/`

>         - `*`: (optional) mmseqs format db of fasta sequences

Reviewer: Optional based on what? what flag do you need to give for it to be generated?

Author: Most of the (optional) outputs are not important results and have been assigned a hard-coded 'enabled:false' in the modules.config. However, some of them (like this mmseqs createdb) has some parameters that allow saving the results. I will append these parameters to their respective output.md row.

    - `mmseqs_linclust/`
      - `<samplename>/`
        - `*`: (optional) mmseqs format clustered db
    - `mmseqs_cluster/`
      - `<samplename>/`
        - `*`: (optional) mmseqs format clustered db
    - `filtered_fasta_chunks/`
      - `<samplename>/`
        - `chunked_fasta/`
          - `*.fasta`: (optional) fasta files with amino acid sequences of each cluster above the membership threshold

</details>

> [MMseqs2](https://github.com/soedinglab/MMseqs2) clusters amino acid fasta files via either the 'cluster' or the 'linclust' algorithms.

Reviewer: I normally like to have one or two sentences saying waht the most useful files are (either for results intepreration, or downstream use) for each output directory

Reviewer: For example, in taxprofiler: https://nf-co.re/taxprofiler/1.2.2/docs/output/#bracken

- `full_msa/`
  - `non_redundant/`
    - `famsa_align/`
      - `<samplename>/`
        - `<samplename>_*.aln`: family full MSA (after checking for sequence redundancy)

</details>

[FAMSA](https://github.com/refresh-bio/FAMSA) is a progressive algorithm for large-scale multiple sequence alignments.

### mafft for redundancy removal

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `full_msa/`
  - `non_redundant/`
    - `mafft_align/`
      - `<samplename>/`
        - `<samplename>_*.fas`: fasta files with aligned amino acid sequences (after checking for sequence redundancy)

</details>

[mafft](https://github.com/GSLBiotech/mafft) is a fast but not very sensitive multiple sequence alignment tool.

### untar

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `untar/`
  - `hmm/`
    - `<samplename>/`
      - `<family_name>.{hmm.gz,hmm}`: (optional) decompressed input hmm tarball
  - `msa/`
    - `<samplename>/`
      - `<family_id>.{aln,fas}`: (optional) decompressed input msa tarball

</details>

### hmmer for updating families

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `update_families/`
  - `hmmer/`
    - `concatenated/`

>       - `<samplename>.hmm.gz`: (optional) concatenated compressed HMM models for all families in a given sample, to be used as input for hmmsearch, to determine which families will be updated with new sequences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `<samplename>.hmm.gz`: (optional) concatenated compressed HMM models for all families in a given sample, to be used as input for hmmsearch, to determine which families will be updated with new sequences
```

Results generated by MultiQC collate pipeline QC from supported tools e.g. FastQC. The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability. For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see <http://multiqc.info>.

Custom output MultiQC data includes a metadata file (multiqc_data/multiqc_family_metadata.txt) with family information such as: Sample,Family Id,Size,Representative Length,Representative Id,Sequence

> This custom metadata is presented as a data table on the web page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This custom metadata is presented as a data table in the MultiQC report file.
```

Webpage might confuse some people slightly as it's not a 'hosted' html file

Results generated by MultiQC collate pipeline QC from supported tools e.g. FastQC. The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability. For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see <http://multiqc.info>.

> Custom output MultiQC data includes a metadata file (multiqc_data/multiqc_family_metadata.txt) with family information such as: Sample,Family Id,Size,Representative Length,Representative Id,Sequence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom output MultiQC data includes a metadata file (`multiqc_data/multiqc_family_metadata.txt`) with family information such as: Sample,Family Id,Size,Representative Length,Representative Id,Sequence
```
